MSC2414: Make reason and score parameters optional for reporting content (#2414)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/2414-optional-content-reporting-reason.md

# MSC2414: Make `reason` optional for reporting content

Currently, the spec says that the `reason` parameter on the content reporting
endpoint is required, but also says that the string "may be blank." This
seems to be a contradiction.

This MSC proposes that the `required` flag for this parameter be removed, as
well as the "may be blank" clause in the description.

Note that the kicking and banning endpoints already have optional `reason`

> parameters. The other endpoints mentioned in #2367 will likely also add

Reviewer: Please linkify things like this:
```suggestion
parameters. The other endpoints mentioned in [#2367](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2367) will likely also add
```

optional `reason` parameters, so it seems that it would be more more consistent

> with the rest of the spec to make this optional as well.

Reviewer 2: Overall I agree with this MSC, however it's worth mentioning the backwards compatibility aspects of it.

Synapse [currently requires the parameter](https://github.com/matrix-org/synapse/blob/9c41ba4c5fe6e554bc885a1bef8ed51d14ec0f3e/synapse/rest/client/v2_alpha/report_event.py#L48), as does [construct](https://github.com/matrix-construct/construct/blob/90da2cb24a9fb10e5e008941b396bdd630b384eb/modules/client/rooms/report.cc#L77-L79).

Clients can check whether they need to send a dummy event if they're talking to a homeserver that doesn't signal support for the C-S API release that this potentially becomes included in. It may be nice to just mention in a short "Backwards compatibility" section that this is a backwards incompatible change with the current spec.

Reviewer 3: @ spec team: I know it's an unpopular opinion but remind me why bumping the endpoint version in CS API would be disruptive? I mean, it's almost a perfect example where making a new endpoint version would provide backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: > I know it's an unpopular opinion but remind me why bumping the endpoint version in CS API would be disruptive? I mean, it's almost a perfect example where making a new endpoint version would provide backwards compatibility.

This thread is the wrong place to be asking this, but the reason is because whether we like it or not the `r0` version scheme ties the endpoint to the major version of the spec whereas the `v1` scheme doesn't. The client-server API uses the `r0` scheme and thus cannot be bumped on an individual basis.

> # MSC2414: Make `reason` optional for reporting content

Reviewer 4: Can we also make `score` optional at the same time? https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/issues/2224

Author: I think that's reasonable. The scope is the same endpoint, and the backwards compatibility workarounds are the same.

@turt2live, is it too late to add this in? If not, I can write it up.

Reviewer: shouldn't be too late.

Currently, the spec says that the `reason` parameter on the content reporting
endpoint is required, but also says that the string "may be blank." This
seems to be a contradiction.

This MSC proposes that the `required` flag for this parameter be removed, as
well as the "may be blank" clause in the description.

Note that the kicking and banning endpoints already have optional `reason`
parameters. The other endpoints mentioned in [#2367](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/2367) will also add
optional `reason` parameters, so it seems that it would be more more consistent
with the rest of the spec to make this optional as well.

## Backwards Compatibility

Since servers currently expect this field to be sent by all clients, making

> this optional is a breaking change. Clients should send query the version of
> the homeserver to determine whether they can safely omit this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this optional is a breaking change. Clients should check the spec versions
the homeserver supports to detect this change.
```

# MSC2414: Make `reason` and `score` optional for reporting content

## Proposal
This MSC proposes to remove the `required` flag for both the `reason` and `score`

> parameters, as well as the "may be blank" clause in the description of `reason`.

Reviewer: @iinuwa I've done this because 5 or so people have mentioned this in passing, and it's blocking review.

> parameters, as well as the "may be blank" clause in the description of `reason`.

Author: @turt2live, thanks

# MSC2414: Make `reason` and `score` optional for reporting content

## Proposal

> On the [report content API](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/r0.6.1#post-matrix-client-r0-rooms-roomid-report-eventid)

Reviewer 5: Not sure if better, but I would expect

```suggestion
On the [report content endpoint](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/r0.6.1#post-matrix-client-r0-rooms-roomid-report-eventid)
```
